# Hosting

Every website needs a host. Right now, your website is hosted by WordPress.com, but there are many other hosting options. First, let's learn what hosting is.

## What Is Hosting?

#### Learning Task

- [Watch: What Is Web Hosting and How Does It Work (For Complete Beginners) - Create a Pro Website on YouTube](https://youtu.be/H8oAvyqQwew)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/H8oAvyqQwew" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Hosting Options

In addition to WordPress.com, there are hundreds of hosting companies that can host your WordPress website. Each company offers varying amounts of help getting your site up and running. Some hosts do all of the heavy lifting for you, similar to what WordPress.com does (but with the added benefit of using the ".org" version of WordPress for more customizing). Other hosts just give you the empty "real estate" and leave it up to you to do the rest.

### WordPress-Optimized Hosts

Some hosting companies offer plans that are specifically tailored for WordPress. These plans are not all created equally, so make sure you read about what each company offers with this type of plan. Some are a great value, but others are just a marketing ploy.

### Things to Consider When Shopping for a Host

- **Backups and security:** Make sure your host offers backups and security features. Because WordPress is so popular, it can be a common target for hackers.
- **Customer service:** Do you plan on reaching out for help often, or trying to find solutions yourself? Some hosting companies or plans offer over-the-phone support, but some only offer email support.
- **Price:** Usually you get what you pay for, but you may be able to find good deals from smaller businesses. Large hosting companies often have very inexpensive plans, but the quality of service may not be worth the savings.
- **Scalability:** Do you expect your website to grow over time? If so, you'll want a host who can easily upgrade your plan when the time is right.
- **Speed:** You want your users to be able to visit your site quickly. If the site takes too long to load, they may give up and leave.
- **Storage:** Most hosting plans have storage limits. This is typically a concern only if you have lots of photos or videos hosted on your site.
- **Support/maintenance:** Do you want the company to set everything up for you, or do you want to have more control over the site?

#### Extra Resources
- [Web Hosting Talk](https://www.webhostingtalk.com/): A great resource for researching web hosts. You can find hosting companies, read reviews, and get discounts when you're ready to buy.
